Mass demonstrations have taken place
across Israel pressuring the government
to make a deal with Hamas to free
hostages still held in Gaza the protests
come after Israel's military said six
hostages were killed by their Hamas
captors shortly before soldiers found
them in a
tunnel anger and frustration boil over
on the streets of Tel
Aviv police clash with demon rators
they've come out in the tens of
thousands to demand an immediate Gaza
ceasefire deal that would allow the
remaining hostages kidnapped on October
the 7th to come home they accuse prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu of
prolonging the war for political gain of
putting his own government's political
survival above the lives of the
hostages in Jerusalem More protest s
this rally is taking place outside the
prime minister's offices part of a wave
of Nationwide grief and anger gripping
Israel as the bodies of six more
hostages are recovered from Gaza we are
here because we can't have the situation
anymore every week we get the best
terrible horrifying news about another
hostages died got murdered
you can't play with civilians Liv you
cannot do that and we
demand we demand the deal to be right
now that's why we Marching for that's
what we're shouting for there are many
families members of the hostages here
saying Wars against the government and
calling just bring them
[Music]
home the demonstrations are taking place
on the same day funeral services are
underway for the hostages their bodies
were covered a day earlier in a tunnel
under the city of Rafa in southern Gaza
according to the military they were
killed by Hamas hours before their
bodies were discovered for more and more
Israelis the blame for this lies with
their government because it was unable
to secure a deal to bring them home
joining their campaign of pressure on
the government a powerful new Ally the
head of Israel's largest Trade
union in the last 11 months I have shown
respons possibility no more I call on
the people of Israel to take to the
streets leave the workplaces I call on
all economic organizations in the state
of Israel to join the
strike bardavid is calling for a one-day
general strike on Monday his union
represents some 800,000 workers in areas
as diverse as Health Care Transportation
and banking the strike would also
include Israel's benuron airport halting
all flights coming in and
out Shalom lipner worked for seven
consecutive Israeli Prime Ministers
lastly as adviser to the ministry of
strategic Affairs he's now with the
Atlantic Council Think Tank and joins us
from New York Shalom these six hostages
survived almost 11 months in captivity
only to apparently be killed just hours
before the IDF got to them can the
Israeli government still credibly say
that it's fighting to save the
hostages good to be with you David well
I mean I think clearly the strategy the
government has taken has not been
effective has been as not been as
effective as they would have hoped I
mean some of the uh some of the hostages
have been brought home as a result of
you know through the IDF operations in
Gaza right now um but you know the
strategically it has not produced that
larger deal that the government has
attested to be seeking to get the rest
of them out and then time is running for
those hostages right now so so your
question is a valid one and um and you
know a lot of the blame that's being
placed on the shoulders of the
government right now is uh you know
that's where it finds its source clearly
in the fact that it's been unsuccessful
so so far to bring those people home I
mean and if we we look at what
apparently happened that they were
killed uh just hours before Israeli
soldiers got there um that combined with
this mounting pressure on Netanyahu is
all this going to force him to make a
deal deal with Hamas or to change his
strategy doesn't actually appear that
way on the surface I mean Nano continues
to be a divisive figure in Israeli
politics there is a degree of uh a large
degree of sympathy I would say for his
you know his attitude towards Kamas
after October 7th obviously but at the
same time there's broad disaffection
with with how he's waged the campaign in
Gaza obviously with his inability so far
the the in ability of as a government to
secure freedom for the hostages um and
that's why we're seeing Israelis back
out in the streets right now um it
doesn't it doesn't immediately look like
he's planning on changing his approach
and clearly the protesters are hoping
that by bringing out these masses into
the streets that you know that public
opinion will be able to shift that and
you know hopefully tilt that balance and
we are seeing hundreds of thousands of
Israelis out on the streets protesting
against the government how much support
though does Netanyahu have actually
among Israelis to continue the war in
Gaza Le trailing consistently in the
polls since the beginning of this
conflict so I mean it would seem on the
surface that there is not a large degree
of support but that you know the
Dynamics of Israeli politics are
complicated um and to be able to unite
the opposition in an effort to push to
unseed him or to bring together people
in the coalition to join with members of
the opposition to do that um you know
requires almost what seems to have been
a superhuman effort so we haven't seen
that happen yet um you know and right
now after the events of this weekend uh
you know clearly people see this
potentially as a trigger to maybe try
and change that balance but uh they've
been unsuccessful in doing that so far
so it remains to be seen if you know
that can happen right now Shalom lipner
thank
you good to be with
you and our correspondent Tanya ker is
following this story for us in Tel Aviv
Tanya it seems to be quite a tense
situation tell us what's happening at
the
moment yeah we're here in the center of
Tel Aviv who standing here on the bridge
bridg is basically the uh Island Highway
and we've seen some scenes down there
with the police they're pushing back the
protest there have been blocking this
major highway for uh for most of the
evening I have been lighting also some
bonfires and you know a lot of chance
here I mean people I talk to you know
there's a lot of sadness but also a lot
of anger and the anger is mainly
directed at the government and prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu it's also
the circumstances now that the these uh
six hostages the bodies uh were found
because it appears according to the
health Ministry that they were uh killed
48 to 72 hours possibly before they were
then uh found and brought to be examined
and that means they were also killed by
uh uh shots uh so people here saying you
know they could have been released uh in
one of the hostage deals mainly the deal
that's on the table right now but it
didn't happen happen and this is the
main Demand by people here they're
saying you know this needs to happen
soon no matter what and we will be
seeing we heard it in the report now
this is just the beginning tonight we'll
be seeing tomorrow a general strike one
of the most powerful trade unions joins
in and there'll be seeing you know also
medium to Smalls siiz businesses they
have said that they will close or their
um employees can go out in the streets
and that's what you know people here
told me they come out in solidarity for
the families and the relatives of the
hostages that were now found also in
recent weeks uh but also for those that
are still remaining in Gaza and they
need to uh be brought home with a
hostage deal rather sooner than later
that was DW's uh Tanya ker in Tel Aviv
Tanya thank you